let's bring in Maran bashara Al jaer
senior political analyst he joins me now
from London Maran as we were just
hearing there from Honda these
journalists aren't just covering the
story they're living the
story Yes actually I've uh in one of
those times when I was watching
U I remember him uh reporting about
children's starvation and how children
were telling him that um that they were
uh starving that there was no food and
so on so forth
and how he felt compelled himself not to
be not to eat it's that much the the
living conditions on Gaza that basically
end up um eating
up our journalists and other journalists
in Gaza because they are part and parcel
of the fabric of the society they're not
parachuted there they know exactly uh
the type of society they live in a ref a
society of refugees a concentration camp
of sort they grow up there and they go
to the available schools and University
like is they study as he did journalism
and of course his fellow uh Road uh uh
traveler as it were in the camp Romy
again a cameraman you know through their
lenses and through their eyes we've been
able to see the tragedy unfold the
starvation the children and we've seen
the reporting from the hospital and
we've seen them arrested as they
reported from Alani hospital and end up
being
tortured and uh now they're assassinated
though so it's tragic in every possible
way but again it's just as tragic as
what is happening to each and every one
of their family member of their co-
Palestinian brothers and sisters living
in Gaza or dying in
Gaza Maran we've been hearing a lot
about Israel's patterns here of
targeting journalists and and not just
journalists but as we were saying
earlier to healthcare workers Aid
workers but specifically when we look at
at the attacks on the Press clearly
Israel has been trying to strategically
change a narrative has that been
successful well clearly it has not been
successful uh the message is getting out
and Palestinians not just journalists by
the way but Palestinians themselves with
their little uh
cell phones are able to tell their
stories and a lot of these stories are
reaching out through various forums and
that's why you know Israel its friends
wants to close down the likes of Tik Tok
and other whereby the message is getting
out to people but certainly the likes of
jazer is really able to have a wider
audience reaching living rooms
everywhere and yes laptops and so on so
forth so in the end of the day the
message has got out uh but but I think
the logic of the of this pattern of
killing is not just um logical there's
something sadistic about what Israel is
do right I mean there's a lot of good
explanations political explanation for
example why they killed hania right or
why they continue they don't want a
ceasefire they want a regional War
there's a fanatic fascist government
that is bent on violence and they live
off violence and and they gain
popularity and legitimacy within their
own ranks through
violence but this sort of a targeting of
journalists is not helping and that's
why I wonder for example why Israeli
journalists are not talking about that
and let me be very clear here I am
against the killing the targeting the
harming of any journalist anywhere
Israeli journalist American journalist
Arab journalist whoever they are but
when you are a witness to more than 160
journalists are getting killed few
kilometers from you in Israel why aren't
the Israeli journalists speaking
out because at least in terms of
Journalism even if you do support your
government shouldn't you be talking in
in in in un uh filtered terms about the
killing of journalists shouldn't Israeli
journalists American journalist British
journalist be talking just like other
journalists now are increasingly talking
about the horrific crimes that are being
carried out in G if the international
court of
justice took the case of Israel's
genocide if the international criminal
court are pursuing Israeli leaders or
the persecutor for war crimes why aren't
journalists talking about what is
happening to their fell journalists and
here I'm talking about Israeli
journalists American journalists and
others they need to speak out far more
than they have because it's their
governments that's either carrying those
crimes or aiding and abetting the car
con I just heard today secretary blink
said we have no part in this meaning in
the assassination I'm sure they have no
part in the killing of our fell
journalist but they have
every part to play in this by arming
financing and shielding Israel the
United States is responsible for the
killing of journalist in Gaza because it
is the one that's arming financing and
shielding Israel or rather this fanatic
government as it carries its crimes in
Gaza Maan if indeed word is getting out
because of of the Brave reporting we've
seen from the ground in Gaza you
mentioned earlier that there has been a
shift in public opinion around this do
you think that we could see any kind of
tangible political consequence to to the
reporting that we've
seen you know there will be eventually
the question is will it be too late
because people are dying every day in
Gaza people are starving every day in
Gaza and and the rest of it right I
don't want to repeat every tragedy that
is happening to every Palestinian family
today in Gaza and the West Bank and
elsewhere so it it's it's just that it
has to happen sooner rather than later
and we really cannot wait until every
other person organizes and they have
been organized we've seen the mass
demonstrations in most western cities
and throughout the world we've seen
Young Generation over campuses and
universities so we've seen public
opinion Rises to the occasion the
problem is a good number of influential
governments are not and
why when you look at some of the faces
or some of the Declarations you think
they're stupid but I have news for
you blinkin Biden sunak and today's St
and and the rest of them they're not
stupid they're very smart in fact but
they're C
they're cynical they're cynical because
they're allowing this to happen under
the pretext of whatever they have always
emphasizing that they are concerned
concerned concerned we are tired of
hearing the word concerned as our fellow
journalists as our colleague are killed
by the Israeli military machine
concerned is no longer good enough they
are smart they know what's going on
they're cynical they need to stop being
cynical because the Strategic calculus
is not working out the political
calculus is not working out a ceasefire
has to happen and it's not just seizing
the fire the Israel has to seize the
crimes it has to seize the genocide it
has to seize the starvation it has to
seize the killing of
journalists M bashara the aler senior
political analyst joining us from London
today thank you
Maran make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz